content/technical-publication.md, before:

---
title: "Publication of the WAI Website"
permalink: /technical/publication/
lang: en
github:
  repository: w3c/wai-website-theme
  path: content/technical-publication.md
footer: > # Text in footer in HTML
  <p> This is the text in the footer </p>
---

{::nomarkdown}
{% include box.html type="start" title="Summary" class="" %}
{:/}

Publishing the WAI Website is done using a GitHub Action 'Deploy' than generates the site and publishes the results to GitHub Pages, then updates the URL mapping on `www.w3.org`. In addition, Netlfy preview deploys are made automatically when code is pushed to GitHub.

Quicklinks:

* [New Release](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases/new) - "Tag Version" field: YYYY-MMmmm-DD _e.g, 2021-02Feb-14_, then "Publish release" button
* [Actions monitor](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/actions)

Others:
* WCAG-EM Report Tool: [New Release](https://github.com/w3c/wai-wcag-em-report-tool/releases/new), [Actions monitor](https://github.com/w3c/wai-wcag-em-report-tool/actions)

{::nomarkdown}
{% include box.html type="end" %}
{:/}

{% include toc.html %}

### Publication Workflow

When resource editors are ready for content to be published, they will create a Pull Request to the publication branch of their repo for the website team to merge and publish/deploy. This is explained in the [Updating WAI Website Resources](/workflow/).

The publication process is:

- one or more resources have their pull requests to the "publication" branch reviewed
- required matching changes to shared resources like the theme are made - possibly on branches
- changes to the wai-website _config are made
- for new resources a git submodule and symblinks are added to wai-website
- the "publish" branch is merged
- the Netlify wai-website preview is built and tested
- the site is published using a GitHub release which triggers a GitHub Action
- the changes are tested on the live site

### Branch protection

GitHub [branch protection settings](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/defining-the-mergeability-of-pull-requests/about-protected-branches) is used to control updates to the branches that are included in the WAI website. These are called "publication" branches.

The "publication" branch of a repository is usually main or master and is listed in `.gitmodules` file. Publication branches are protected to require a pull request and direct commits are not possible. Only WAI team can merge to it so they can control when changes are pulled into the wai website. This requires only WAI website staff have privileges above "wright".

WAI Team members can always override the protections if required.

The minimum GitHub repository settings required for this
are:

- no one has access higher than "write" (WAI Team members inherit full access from the organization)
- the publication branch has protections:
  - Require a pull request before merging
  - Restrict who can push to matching branches

### Cleanup

Ensure the Pull Request and branch in the resource repo are deleted.

## Deployment

Deployment consist of publication to the [main site](https://www.w3.org/WAI/...) via github pages. The W3C website uses a reverse proxy so the WAI site pages appear within it mounted at `www.w3.org/WAI/`
Publication is started by filling in the GitHub new [release form](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases/new) which triggers the GitHub [deploy Action](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/master/.github/workflows/deploy.yml) to perform the build and deployment.

The build process consists of several steps for all repos:

1. checkout git repo including submodules
1. install all dependencies (ie Ruby Gems)
1. use the Ruby `bundle` command to invoke Jekyll for the build
1. deploy to github pages
1. update urls for inclusion in `www.w3.org/WAI/`.

When a release is made in GitHub, the GitHub `deploy` action builds and then generates a `manifest.txt`, copies the built static files to GitHub pages rather than letting GitHub pages run Jekyll again, and finally invokes `https://www.w3.org/services/update-wai-map'` to update the W3C URL mapping. Netlify build uses the same first 3 steps.

The GitHub Action runs on ubuntu-latest (currently Focal 20.04) and Netlify uses Xenial (16.04).

GitHub pages are configured so the latest commit on the branch `gh-pages` is served via GitHub http access.

To deploy, in GitHub:

1. in the wai-website repo select `Releases` on the right
1. select `draft a new release`
1. fill in the details and click `publish release`
1. navigate to `Actions` and select `Deploy`
1. click on the top line to view the log and watch progress

## Rollback

I case of a deploy breaking the site it is possible to rollback to an earlier version. This works by deleting the latest checkins from the `gh-pages` branch. It does not touch the source or re-build.

In GitHub:

1. in the wai-website repo `code` section select the `gh-pages` branch
1. select the `commits` history view
1. identify the commit you want to rollback to - usually the second from the top.
1. click the 'clipboard' icon on the right of the row. this will copy the commit id to clipboard
1. got to `Actions` in the top Navigation
1. select `Rollback Website`
1. click `Run workflow` button on the right
1. in the first edit box paste the id you previously copied
1. in the second edit box type `yes` and click `Run Workflow`

Refresh your browser to check the WAI website has rolled back. You may have a wait a minute or two for caching.
@@

## 1. Generate Site Files --

TODO add Netlify previews

There are two ways to generate the site. 1.1 shows how to do it on GitHub, 1.2 shows how to render it on your local machine for testing.

**1.1 is the method used to deploy the site**, and 1.2 may be useful for experiments or debugging.

{% include excol.html type="start" id="simple" open="true" %}

### 1.1 Generate and Publish Using GitHub Action

{% include excol.html type="middle" %}

#### 1.1.1 Create a Release on GitHub

Go to the [Draft Release page](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases/new). Enter today’s date into the “Tag Version” input field, in the format: `YYYY-MMmmm-DD` e.g, 2020-12Dec-25.

For multiple releases on one day, add a letter to the end: `YYYY-MMmmm-DD-x` with `x` replaced by a letter, starting with a.

Click the “Publish Release” button.

This process starts a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/master/.github/workflows/deploy.yml) which – at the time of writing – automatically performs the following steps:

1. Check out repository
2. Update external resources
3. Commit the updated resources to the repository (if any)
4. Builds the site into the `_site` folder
5. Creates a list of generated resources in [_site/manifest.txt](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/gh-pages/manifest.txt)
6. Publishes the `_site` folder to [the gh-pages branch](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/tree/gh-pages)
7. Creates a zip archive of that folder
8. Attaches that zip archive to the release
9. Updates the URL mapping on the W3C site

You can follow the generation of the files in the [Actions tab](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/actions) on GitHub. Once the generation is done (after about 6–9 minutes), reload the release (from the [releases page](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases)) and you can find that a `build.zip` has been attached to the release:

{% include image.html src="technical-publication-release.png" alt="" %}

**Note:** This build.zip file is not used anywhere and may no longer be needed, but kept for now in case it can help with debugging.

If each step of the GitHub Action has been successful, the newly-generated site should have been published to GitHub Pages and the URL mapping on `www.w3.org` updated to proxy requests for the URLs listed in `manifest.txt` to GitHub Pages instead of being served from W3C's legacy document tree.

Implementation details: [one](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Team/w3t-sys/2020MayJun/0055.html), [two](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Team/w3t-sys/2020MayJun/0056.html) (W3C staff-restricted)

#### 1.1.2 Debugging If Something Goes Wrong

Visit the [GitHub Actions page](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/actions) and click on the most recent run, then click `build` in the left side nav bar. That will show a log of the actions; each one is expandable and will show more details including any errors that came up.

If your expected resource is not available on `www.w3.org`, check that there is an entry for it in [the manifest.txt file](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/gh-pages/manifest.txt).

If there is no entry for the expected resource in the `manifest.txt` file, there may be an issue with the build process.

If there is an entry in `manifest.txt` but it is not available via www.w3.org, you can check [the map file update tool](https://www.w3.org/services/update-wai-map) to view info about the last update and the number of entries, and click the `Update map file` button to cause it to force a refresh of the map file on W3C's site. This may be necessary if there was a timing issue between the GitHub Pages site being updated and the map file being updated on W3C's site, for example if it took longer than usual for GitHub Pages to be updated.

{% include excol.html type="end" %}

{% include excol.html type="start" id="complicated" %}

### 1.2 Generate Site Locally for Testing

{% include excol.html type="middle" %}

This method should normally not be necessary, but may be useful for those wanting to generate a local copy of the site for testing or experiments.

**Note:** The following steps were tested on a Unix, Max OS and Ubuntu on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) 2. Problems with Ruby and the use of symlinks exclude using Windows native shells. In all cases you will need `git` and `Ruby` installed, on WSL `dev-essentials` was required to build modules.

#### 1.2.1 Locally Clone & Set Up the Repository

The steps in this step 0

Clone the repository to your local computer to build. For example, the following command would clone the repository to your home folder:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:w3c/wai-website.git ~/wai-website
```

Then go to your checked out version of the site:

```bash
cd ~/wai-website
```

then install bundler:

```bash
gem install bundler
```

And install the dependencies. This step with bundler makes sure that everyone has the same versions of Jekyll & Plugins:

```bash
bundle install
```

(Yes, the application is called `bundler`, the command is `bundle`.)

Then, you also need to initialize the submodules:

```
git submodule init
git submodule update --remote
```

#### 1.2.1 Update Submodules

Submodules are links to the individual resources. `wai-website` is our main repository and individual resources like `wai-people-use-web` are then linked to as submodules.

The main repository keeps the structure of the website and then pulls the content from the individual resources.

Please ensure that you have the current version of the repository downloaded. So in your clone of the repository (for example in `~/wai-website`) run:

```bash
git pull
```

Then update the submodules:

```bash
git submodule update --remote && git add _external && git commit -m "Update Externals" && git push
```

This code does four things: It updates the submodules, adds them to a commit, locks that commit in and pushes it back to the server.

#### 1.2.2 Build Site

Occasionally the bundler code is outdated or stops working, in that case run a `bundle update` in the repository folder.

Afterwards, build the site:

```bash
bundle exec jekyll build --config "_config.yml,_config_prod.yml" --incremental
```

This command takes a couple of minutes to run. It outputs certain warnings that can be ignored:

```bash
Invalid theme folder: _sass
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/lang.json
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/techniques.yml
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/translations.yml
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/wcag.yml
```

The generated site is then output in the `_site` sub directory, for example in `~/wai-website/_site/`

{% include excol.html type="end" %}

Commit message:

Add comment about when to run with netlify dev

content/technical-publication.md, after:

---
title: "Publication of the WAI Website"
permalink: /technical/publication/
lang: en
github:
  repository: w3c/wai-website-theme
  path: content/technical-publication.md
footer: > # Text in footer in HTML
  <p> This is the text in the footer </p>
---

{::nomarkdown}
{% include box.html type="start" title="Summary" class="" %}
{:/}

Publishing the WAI Website is done using a GitHub Action 'Deploy' than generates the site and publishes the results to GitHub Pages, then updates the URL mapping on `www.w3.org`. In addition, Netlfy preview deploys are made automatically when code is pushed to GitHub.

Quicklinks:

* [New Release](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases/new) - "Tag Version" field: YYYY-MMmmm-DD _e.g, 2021-02Feb-14_, then "Publish release" button
* [Actions monitor](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/actions)

Others:
* WCAG-EM Report Tool: [New Release](https://github.com/w3c/wai-wcag-em-report-tool/releases/new), [Actions monitor](https://github.com/w3c/wai-wcag-em-report-tool/actions)

{::nomarkdown}
{% include box.html type="end" %}
{:/}

{% include toc.html %}

### Publication Workflow

When resource editors are ready for content to be published, they will create a Pull Request to the publication branch of their repo for the website team to merge and publish/deploy. This is explained in the [Updating WAI Website Resources](/workflow/).

The publication process is:

- one or more resources have their pull requests to the "publication" branch reviewed
- required matching changes to shared resources like the theme are made - possibly on branches
- changes to the wai-website _config are made
- for new resources a git submodule and symblinks are added to wai-website
- the "publish" branch is merged
- the Netlify wai-website preview is built and tested
- the site is published using a GitHub release which triggers a GitHub Action
- the changes are tested on the live site

### Branch protection

GitHub [branch protection settings](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/defining-the-mergeability-of-pull-requests/about-protected-branches) is used to control updates to the branches that are included in the WAI website. These are called "publication" branches.

The "publication" branch of a repository is usually main or master and is listed in `.gitmodules` file. Publication branches are protected to require a pull request and direct commits are not possible. Only WAI team can merge to it so they can control when changes are pulled into the wai website. This requires only WAI website staff have privileges above "wright".

WAI Team members can always override the protections if required.

The minimum GitHub repository settings required for this
are:

- no one has access higher than "write" (WAI Team members inherit full access from the organization)
- the publication branch has protections:
  - Require a pull request before merging
  - Restrict who can push to matching branches

### Cleanup

Ensure the Pull Request and branch in the resource repo are deleted.

## Deployment

Deployment consist of publication to the [main site](https://www.w3.org/WAI/...) via github pages. The W3C website uses a reverse proxy so the WAI site pages appear within it mounted at `www.w3.org/WAI/`
Publication is started by filling in the GitHub new [release form](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases/new) which triggers the GitHub [deploy Action](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/master/.github/workflows/deploy.yml) to perform the build and deployment.

The build process consists of several steps for all repos:

1. checkout git repo including submodules
1. install all dependencies (ie Ruby Gems)
1. use the Ruby `bundle` command to invoke Jekyll for the build
1. deploy to github pages
1. update urls for inclusion in `www.w3.org/WAI/`.

When a release is made in GitHub, the GitHub `deploy` action builds and then generates a `manifest.txt`, copies the built static files to GitHub pages rather than letting GitHub pages run Jekyll again, and finally invokes `https://www.w3.org/services/update-wai-map'` to update the W3C URL mapping. Netlify build uses the same first 3 steps.

The GitHub Action runs on ubuntu-latest (currently Focal 20.04) and Netlify uses Xenial (16.04).

GitHub pages are configured so the latest commit on the branch `gh-pages` is served via GitHub http access.

To deploy, in GitHub:

1. in the wai-website repo select `Releases` on the right
1. select `draft a new release`
1. fill in the details and click `publish release`
1. navigate to `Actions` and select `Deploy`
1. click on the top line to view the log and watch progress

## Rollback

I case of a deploy breaking the site it is possible to rollback to an earlier version. This works by deleting the latest checkins from the `gh-pages` branch. It does not touch the source or re-build.

In GitHub:

1. in the wai-website repo `code` section select the `gh-pages` branch
1. select the `commits` history view
1. identify the commit you want to rollback to - usually the second from the top.
1. click the 'clipboard' icon on the right of the row. this will copy the commit id to clipboard
1. got to `Actions` in the top Navigation
1. select `Rollback Website`
1. click `Run workflow` button on the right
1. in the first edit box paste the id you previously copied
1. in the second edit box type `yes` and click `Run Workflow`

Refresh your browser to check the WAI website has rolled back. You may have a wait a minute or two for caching.
@@

## 1. Generate Site Files --

TODO add Netlify previews

There are two ways to generate the site. 1.1 shows how to do it on GitHub, 1.2 shows how to render it on your local machine for testing.

**1.1 is the method used to deploy the site**, and 1.2 may be useful for experiments or debugging.

{% include excol.html type="start" id="simple" open="true" %}

### 1.1 Generate and Publish Using GitHub Action

{% include excol.html type="middle" %}

#### 1.1.1 Create a Release on GitHub

Go to the [Draft Release page](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases/new). Enter today’s date into the “Tag Version” input field, in the format: `YYYY-MMmmm-DD` e.g, 2020-12Dec-25.

For multiple releases on one day, add a letter to the end: `YYYY-MMmmm-DD-x` with `x` replaced by a letter, starting with a.

Click the “Publish Release” button.

This process starts a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/master/.github/workflows/deploy.yml) which – at the time of writing – automatically performs the following steps:

1. Check out repository
2. Update external resources
3. Commit the updated resources to the repository (if any)
4. Builds the site into the `_site` folder
5. Creates a list of generated resources in [_site/manifest.txt](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/gh-pages/manifest.txt)
6. Publishes the `_site` folder to [the gh-pages branch](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/tree/gh-pages)
7. Creates a zip archive of that folder
8. Attaches that zip archive to the release
9. Updates the URL mapping on the W3C site

You can follow the generation of the files in the [Actions tab](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/actions) on GitHub. Once the generation is done (after about 6–9 minutes), reload the release (from the [releases page](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/releases)) and you can find that a `build.zip` has been attached to the release:

{% include image.html src="technical-publication-release.png" alt="" %}

**Note:** This build.zip file is not used anywhere and may no longer be needed, but kept for now in case it can help with debugging.

If each step of the GitHub Action has been successful, the newly-generated site should have been published to GitHub Pages and the URL mapping on `www.w3.org` updated to proxy requests for the URLs listed in `manifest.txt` to GitHub Pages instead of being served from W3C's legacy document tree.

Implementation details: [one](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Team/w3t-sys/2020MayJun/0055.html), [two](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Team/w3t-sys/2020MayJun/0056.html) (W3C staff-restricted)

#### 1.1.2 Debugging If Something Goes Wrong

Visit the [GitHub Actions page](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/actions) and click on the most recent run, then click `build` in the left side nav bar. That will show a log of the actions; each one is expandable and will show more details including any errors that came up.

If your expected resource is not available on `www.w3.org`, check that there is an entry for it in [the manifest.txt file](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/blob/gh-pages/manifest.txt).

If there is no entry for the expected resource in the `manifest.txt` file, there may be an issue with the build process.

If there is an entry in `manifest.txt` but it is not available via www.w3.org, you can check [the map file update tool](https://www.w3.org/services/update-wai-map) to view info about the last update and the number of entries, and click the `Update map file` button to cause it to force a refresh of the map file on W3C's site. This may be necessary if there was a timing issue between the GitHub Pages site being updated and the map file being updated on W3C's site, for example if it took longer than usual for GitHub Pages to be updated.

{% include excol.html type="end" %}

{% include excol.html type="start" id="complicated" %}

### 1.2 Generate Site Locally for Testing

{% include excol.html type="middle" %}

This method should normally not be necessary, but may be useful for those wanting to generate a local copy of the site for testing or experiments.

**Note:** The following steps were tested on a Unix, Max OS and Ubuntu on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) 2. Problems with Ruby and the use of symlinks exclude using Windows native shells. In all cases you will need `git` and `Ruby` installed, on WSL `dev-essentials` was required to build modules.

#### 1.2.1 Locally Clone & Set Up the Repository

The steps in this step 0

Clone the repository to your local computer to build. For example, the following command would clone the repository to your home folder:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:w3c/wai-website.git ~/wai-website
```

Then go to your checked out version of the site:

```bash
cd ~/wai-website
```

then install bundler:

```bash
gem install bundler
```

And install the dependencies. This step with bundler makes sure that everyone has the same versions of Jekyll & Plugins:

```bash
bundle install
```

(Yes, the application is called `bundler`, the command is `bundle`.)

Then, you also need to initialize the submodules:

```
git submodule init
git submodule update --remote
```

#### 1.2.1 Update Submodules

Submodules are links to the individual resources. `wai-website` is our main repository and individual resources like `wai-people-use-web` are then linked to as submodules.

The main repository keeps the structure of the website and then pulls the content from the individual resources.

Please ensure that you have the current version of the repository downloaded. So in your clone of the repository (for example in `~/wai-website`) run:

```bash
git pull
```

Then update the submodules:

```bash
git submodule update --remote && git add _external && git commit -m "Update Externals" && git push
```

This code does four things: It updates the submodules, adds them to a commit, locks that commit in and pushes it back to the server.

#### 1.2.2 Build Site

Occasionally the bundler code is outdated or stops working, in that case run a `bundle update` in the repository folder.

Afterwards, build the site:

```bash
bundle exec jekyll build --config "_config.yml,_config_prod.yml" --incremental
```

This command takes a couple of minutes to run. It outputs certain warnings that can be ignored:

```bash
Invalid theme folder: _sass
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/lang.json
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/techniques.yml
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/translations.yml
WARNING: skipped symlink /private/var/folders/br/73fx4d5s7dbb0j18tqdt6hfh0000gn/T/jekyll-remote-theme-20190924-62884-9cxak3/_data/wcag.yml
```

The generated site is then output in the `_site` sub directory, for example in `~/wai-website/_site/`

Alternatively, you may need to run the website with Netlify to test Netlify Function:

```bash
netlify dev
```

{% include excol.html type="end" %}
